{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2868
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Semibold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green14\blue14;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6700\c6700\c6700;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs38 \cf2 My recommendation in one sentence
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Use Google Document AI for primary OCR/HTR, OpenAI for extraction/reasoning/synthesis, OpenSearch for exact + hybrid retrieval, PostgreSQL for source-of-truth records, and a mandatory human review queue for uncertainty.
\f1\b0 \
\
That is the best practical stack for your problem right now. Google\'92s Enterprise Document OCR is built for scanned documents, supports handwriting, rotation correction, and page-level quality signals, while OpenAI\'92s file search / vector-store stack is strong for semantic + keyword retrieval over indexed content rather than raw messy scans.  \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs38 \cf2 So is OpenAI the better alternative?
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 OpenAI is the better LLM layer. It is not the better raw OCR layer.
\f1\b0 \
\
OpenAI\'92s hosted file search is very useful because it provides semantic and keyword search over uploaded files in vector stores, and OpenAI\'92s vector stores support chunking strategies directly. But that helps most 
\f2\b after
\f1\b0  you have usable text or normalized records. It does not replace a handwriting-first document pipeline for old aviation logs.  \
\
Google Document AI is explicitly positioned for document understanding and its Enterprise OCR supports handwriting, deskew/rotation correction, quality scoring, and layout extraction. AWS Textract also supports extracting printed text, handwriting, layout elements, and form/table data.  \
\
So the split is:\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b Google Document AI
\f1\b0 : best first-pass document OCR/HTR for your messy logbooks\
	\'95	
\f2\b AWS Textract
\f1\b0 : useful fallback / second opinion\
	\'95	
\f2\b OpenAI
\f1\b0 : best for structured extraction, correction suggestions, question answering, summarization, and semantic retrieval\
	\'95	
\f2\b OpenSearch / Elasticsearch
\f1\b0 : best for exact and auditable search behavior\
	\'95	
\f2\b Human review UI
\f1\b0 : non-negotiable\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs38 \cf2 What I would change in your spec before Codex
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 1) Reduce the v1 vendor count
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\
Your current spec uses Google, AWS, OpenAI, Cohere, Auth0, Datadog, LaunchDarkly, Sentry, Stripe, and more, plus multiple services. That is too much for first build.  \
\
For v1, I would cut it down to:\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Google Document AI\
	\'95	OpenAI\
	\'95	OpenSearch\
	\'95	PostgreSQL\
	\'95	S3\
	\'95	Redis\
	\'95	One auth system\
	\'95	One worker queue\
	\'95	One frontend\
	\'95	One backend\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 2) Collapse the microservices
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\
Your current layout splits auth-service, core-api, document-processor, search-service, notification-service, export-service, compliance-service, and integration-service. That is elegant on paper, but too wide for early execution.  \
\
For v1 I would use only:\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	
\f2\b api
\f1\b0 \
	\'95	
\f2\b worker
\f1\b0 \
	\'95	
\f2\b web
\f1\b0 \
	\'95	
\f2\b opensearch
\f1\b0 \
	\'95	
\f2\b postgres
\f1\b0 \
	\'95	
\f2\b redis
\f1\b0 \
\
That is enough to ship.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 3) Keep the exact-match router
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\
This part of your spec is excellent and should stay: part numbers, AD references, A&P cert numbers, and tach/date style queries should route to exact / structured search, not fuzzy semantic search.  \
\
That is one of your biggest competitive advantages if you do it well.\
\

\f0\b\fs34 4) Keep the review queue
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\
Your confidence banding and review queue logic is correct. Low-confidence fields should not silently become truth.  \
\

\f0\b\fs34 5) Do not let OpenAI file search touch raw truth first
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\
OpenAI file search is strong for retrieval over indexed files and chunks, but for your product the source of truth should be:\
\pard\tqr\tx280\tx440\li440\fi-440\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	1.	reviewed structured entries\
	2.	high-confidence extracted entries\
	3.	original page evidence\
	4.	semantic retrieval as helper, not authority.  \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs38 \cf2 My ideal v1 architecture
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 Layer 1 \'97 ingestion
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	upload PDF/images\
	\'95	split pages\
	\'95	preprocess: rotate, deskew, crop, enhance\
	\'95	classify page type\
	\'95	store originals + processed pages\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 Layer 2 \'97 text and field extraction
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	primary OCR/HTR: Google Document AI\
	\'95	fallback OCR/HTR: AWS Textract only when confidence is weak\
	\'95	OpenAI structured extraction on page text + page image for difficult pages\
	\'95	normalize into typed event objects\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 Layer 3 \'97 truth store
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	PostgreSQL tables for aircraft, documents, pages, maintenance entries, references, confidence, review state\
	\'95	every field linked to page and bounding box / evidence reference\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 Layer 4 \'97 search
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	OpenSearch exact indexes for:\
\pard\tqr\tx500\tx660\li660\fi-660\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	part numbers\
	\'95	AD numbers\
	\'95	cert numbers\
	\'95	dates\
	\'95	tach values\
	\'95	ATA chapter\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	semantic layer for natural-language questions\
	\'95	query router decides which path to use\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 Layer 5 \'97 review
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	reviewer sees original page, processed page, OCR text, extracted fields\
	\'95	reviewer corrects and approves\
	\'95	corrected version becomes canonical record\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 Layer 6 \'97 assistant
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	OpenAI answers user questions\
	\'95	but only from reviewed/high-confidence evidence\
	\'95	every answer cites page/source\
	\'95	if uncertain, says uncertain\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs38 \cf2 Best stack choice by job
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 OCR / handwriting
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Best choice: Google Document AI first.
\f1\b0 \
Google documents that Enterprise Document OCR is recommended for scanned documents, supports handwriting, rotation correction, image-quality scoring, and layout extraction.  \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 Secondary OCR / fallback
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Best choice: AWS Textract as secondary.
\f1\b0 \
AWS says Textract extracts printed text, handwriting, layout elements, and form/table data. That makes it useful as a second pass or confidence check, not necessarily your primary truth engine.  \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 LLM extraction + reasoning
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Best choice: OpenAI.
\f1\b0 \
Use it for:\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	structured JSON extraction\
	\'95	page summarization\
	\'95	Q&A\
	\'95	conflict explanation\
	\'95	semantic retrieval\
	\'95	citation-based answer synthesis\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 Hosted retrieval
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\
OpenAI\'92s file search is good when you want managed semantic + keyword retrieval over uploaded files in vector stores, and its vector stores support auto chunking as well as configurable chunking.  \
\
But for your app I would still keep 
\f2\b your own search index
\f1\b0  because aviation exact-match search is too important to outsource completely.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs38 \cf2 What I would not do
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\
I would 
\f2\b not
\f1\b0  make these mistakes:\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	not pure RAG\
	\'95	not raw OCR chunks only\
	\'95	not OpenAI-only for ingestion\
	\'95	not Google-only for answers\
	\'95	not eight microservices in month one\
	\'95	not semantic search for AD / part number truth\
	\'95	not automatic acceptance of uncertain handwriting\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs38 \cf2 Superior v1 blueprint
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\
This is what I would actually tell your developer to build first:\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 Backend
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Python FastAPI\
	\'95	one repo\
	\'95	one main API service\
	\'95	one Celery/worker service\
	\'95	PostgreSQL\
	\'95	Redis\
	\'95	OpenSearch\
	\'95	S3\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 OCR/extraction
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	Google Document AI primary\
	\'95	AWS Textract fallback only\
	\'95	OpenAI for extraction and answer synthesis\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 Frontend
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	React + TypeScript\
	\'95	one search page\
	\'95	one document viewer\
	\'95	one review queue\
	\'95	one aircraft timeline page\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 Auth
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	simpler auth for now; if enterprise SSO is not immediate, do not overcomplicate early\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 Data model
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	documents\
	\'95	pages\
	\'95	extracted_blocks\
	\'95	maintenance_entries\
	\'95	parts\
	\'95	ad_refs\
	\'95	review_tasks\
	\'95	corrections\
	\'95	citations\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf2 Search modes
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	exact\
	\'95	filtered keyword\
	\'95	hybrid\
	\'95	assistant answer with evidence\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs38 \cf2 My opinion on your current GodMode architecture
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 It is better than average, but not yet optimal.
\f1\b0 \
\
It is best where it says:\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	accuracy over speed\
	\'95	no hallucination on compliance\
	\'95	explainable search results\
	\'95	mandatory citations\
	\'95	hybrid router\
	\'95	human review\
	\'95	aviation taxonomy\
	\'95	structured records.  \
\
It becomes weaker where it tries to be too big too early:\
	\'95	too many services\
	\'95	too many vendors\
	\'95	too much enterprise scaffolding in phase 1\
	\'95	too much operational surface area for first build.  \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs38 \cf2 The decision I would make today
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\
If you want the strongest real-world starting point:\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 Build v1 on this stack:
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	FastAPI\
	\'95	React\
	\'95	PostgreSQL\
	\'95	OpenSearch\
	\'95	S3\
	\'95	Redis\
	\'95	Google Document AI\
	\'95	OpenAI\
	\'95	optional Textract fallback\
\
That will give you:\
	\'95	better handwriting handling\
	\'95	stronger exact search\
	\'95	faster user-visible results\
	\'95	better evidence grounding\
	\'95	lower hallucination risk\
	\'95	cleaner path to a later moat\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs38 \cf2 Final verdict
\f1\b0\fs32 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl324\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf2 No, your current architecture is not yet the final best version.
\f1\b0 \

\f2\b Yes, it is close in concept.
\f1\b0 \

\f2\b The best move is not \'93switch to OpenAI only.\'94
\f1\b0 \

\f2\b The best move is \'93Google for OCR, OpenAI for intelligence, OpenSearch for truthy retrieval, human review for uncertainty.\'94
\f1\b0 \
\
That is the version I would freeze before writing the final Codex markdown.\
\
Next I\'92ll turn this into a 
\f2\b cleaned, corrected v1 architecture
\f1\b0  with:\
\pard\tqr\tx100\tx260\li260\fi-260\sl324\slmult1\sb240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 	\'95	what to remove\
	\'95	what to keep\
	\'95	exact service list\
	\'95	exact vendor choices\
	\'95	exact build order for Claude/Cursor/Codex alignment.}