{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2868
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # MYAIRCRAFT.US \'97 REMINDER TEMPLATE CATALOG + ACTIVATION RULES PROMPT\
\
You are extending the existing myaircraft.us product. Do NOT create a disconnected reminder system. Build a complete reminder template catalog and reminder intelligence engine that plugs into the existing aircraft, documents, reminders, RAG, and integrations foundations already in the product.\
\
## Mission\
Create a complete, seeded reminder template registry so the product already knows the universe of common aircraft maintenance/compliance reminders, even before all aircraft-specific evidence is fully ingested.\
\
The reminder engine must then activate, update, suppress, escalate, and close reminder instances automatically based on:\
- aircraft registry data\
- connected scheduling/provider integrations\
- tach / hobbs / airframe time sync\
- uploaded native-text and scanned logbooks\
- OCR / structured extraction\
- FAA AD applicability + compliance evidence\
- recurring compliance schedules\
- dates and expiration rules\
- manual admin overrides where allowed\
\
---\
\
# PART 1 \'97 CORE DESIGN RULES\
\
## Rules\
1. Templates define what kinds of reminders can exist.\
2. Reminder instances are aircraft-specific realizations of templates.\
3. Templates may exist in a seeded inactive state until evidence or applicability activates them.\
4. The LLM may extract evidence and classify text, but reminder activation/due logic must be deterministic.\
5. Every reminder instance must have:\
   - aircraft id\
   - org id\
   - template id\
   - status\
   - source basis\
   - due basis\
   - evidence links where available\
   - last evaluated timestamp\
6. Compliance-critical reminders must never rely on hallucinated facts.\
7. Conflicting evidence must surface review tasks rather than silently overwrite truth.\
8. Reminder rules must support date-based, tach-based, hobbs-based, recurring, document-derived, and integration-derived logic.\
\
---\
\
# PART 2 \'97 DATA MODEL\
\
Build or extend:\
\
## reminder_templates\
Fields:\
- id\
- code\
- title\
- category\
- subcategory\
- description\
- applicable_to_aircraft_classes\
- applicable_to_operation_types\
- source_modes\
- due_basis_type\
- activation_rule_type\
- completion_rule_type\
- recurrence_rule_type\
- default_lead_days\
- default_lead_hours\
- severity_default\
- requires_review_on_activation\
- requires_review_on_completion\
- compliance_critical\
- regulatory_reference\
- sort_order\
- is_seeded\
- is_active\
- metadata\
- created_at\
- updated_at\
\
## reminder_instances\
Fields:\
- id\
- org_id\
- aircraft_id\
- template_id\
- status\
- activation_state\
- due_date\
- due_tach\
- due_hobbs\
- due_airframe_time\
- source_kind\
- source_ref\
- evidence_ref\
- confidence\
- severity\
- title_override\
- description_override\
- notes\
- auto_created\
- auto_closed\
- manual_override\
- snoozed_until\
- last_evaluated_at\
- next_evaluation_at\
- created_at\
- updated_at\
\
## reminder_evidence\
Fields:\
- id\
- reminder_instance_id\
- evidence_type\
- document_id\
- page_number\
- maintenance_entry_id\
- integration_provider\
- integration_payload_ref\
- ad_status_id\
- snippet\
- confidence\
- created_at\
\
## reminder_rule_runs\
Fields:\
- id\
- aircraft_id\
- template_id\
- run_reason\
- result_state\
- result_summary\
- payload\
- created_at\
\
---\
\
# PART 3 \'97 MASTER TEMPLATE CATALOG\
\
Seed the following reminder templates. Even if some remain inactive initially, the catalog must exist in the system.\
\
## A. INSPECTION REMINDERS\
1. annual_inspection_due\
2. annual_inspection_overdue\
3. hundred_hour_inspection_due\
4. hundred_hour_inspection_overdue\
5. progressive_inspection_phase_due\
6. progressive_inspection_phase_overdue\
7. prebuy_records_review\
8. conformity_records_review\
9. return_to_service_document_review\
\
## B. AD REMINDERS\
10. ad_applicability_review_required\
11. ad_unknown_compliance\
12. ad_due_soon\
13. ad_overdue\
14. recurring_ad_reinspection_due\
15. recurring_ad_reinspection_overdue\
16. ad_supersedure_review\
17. ad_evidence_conflict_review\
\
## C. REGISTRATION / CERTIFICATE / DOCUMENT REMINDERS\
18. registration_expiration_due\
19. registration_expiration_overdue\
20. airworthiness_document_review\
21. insurance_expiration_due\
22. operating_limitations_review\
23. poh_afm_revision_review\
24. weight_and_balance_review_due\
\
## D. AVIONICS / IFR / CHECK REMINDERS\
25. transponder_inspection_due\
26. transponder_inspection_overdue\
27. static_system_inspection_due\
28. static_system_inspection_overdue\
29. altimeter_inspection_due\
30. altimeter_inspection_overdue\
31. ifr_certification_review\
32. vor_check_due\
33. vor_check_recent_missing\
\
## E. ELT / SAFETY EQUIPMENT REMINDERS\
34. elt_battery_due\
35. elt_battery_overdue\
36. elt_inspection_due\
37. elt_inspection_overdue\
38. fire_extinguisher_service_due\
39. life_vest_equipment_review\
40. oxygen_bottle_inspection_due\
\
## F. ENGINE / PROP / COMPONENT TIME REMINDERS\
41. engine_overhaul_review_due\
42. propeller_overhaul_review_due\
43. engine_time_limit_due\
44. prop_time_limit_due\
45. component_replacement_due\
46. oil_change_due\
47. oil_change_overdue\
48. magneto_inspection_due\
49. spark_plug_service_due\
50. hose_ageout_due\
\
## G. MAINTENANCE / DISCREPANCY / SQUAWK REMINDERS\
51. open_discrepancy_followup\
52. deferred_maintenance_review\
53. unresolved_squawk_review\
54. maintenance_grounding_status\
55. return_to_service_missing\
56. missing_signoff_review\
57. missing_ap_ia_cert_review\
\
## H. OPERATIONAL / USAGE-BASED REMINDERS\
58. tach_sync_stale\
59. hobbs_sync_stale\
60. aircraft_usage_conflict_review\
61. inspection_due_by_tach\
62. inspection_due_by_hobbs\
63. recurring_event_due_by_usage\
64. provider_connection_failed\
65. provider_sync_stale\
\
## I. CUSTOM / ORG CONFIGURABLE REMINDERS\
66. org_custom_date_due\
67. org_custom_tach_due\
68. org_custom_hobbs_due\
69. org_custom_document_review\
70. org_custom_compliance_check\
\
---\
\
# PART 4 \'97 TEMPLATE DEFINITIONS\
\
For each seeded template, define:\
- title\
- category\
- default severity\
- activation basis\
- due basis\
- completion basis\
- evidence expectations\
- whether manual review is required\
\
## Example structure\
For each template create configuration similar to:\
\
```json\
\{\
  "code": "annual_inspection_due",\
  "title": "Annual Inspection Due",\
  "category": "inspection",\
  "due_basis_type": "date",\
  "activation_rule_type": "document_or_manual_or_imported_evidence",\
  "completion_rule_type": "newer_annual_inspection_evidence",\
  "recurrence_rule_type": "annual",\
  "default_lead_days": 30,\
  "severity_default": "high",\
  "compliance_critical": true,\
  "regulatory_reference": "14 CFR 91.409",\
  "requires_review_on_activation": false,\
  "requires_review_on_completion": false\
\}}